# Functions
- `main` function is the entry point of the kotlin program. It takes array of strings as argument
```
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    println("Hello, world!")
    println("Hello, ${args[0]}")
}
```
- By default `main` function and `println` return value of type `Unit`. For example `val v = println("Hello")`, here v is of type `kotlin.Unit`
- We can put an expression within string template `$`. Even we can put `if-else` statement also within string template.
- We can give the return type of the function. `fun name(first:String) : String {}`, here, function `name` takes an argument of type `String` and return value of type `String`. But, giving return type is not mandatory.
- `when` statement in Kotlin works like `switch` case in other language.
```
fun food(day:String) : String {
   var food = "fasting"
      when(day) {
        "Monday" -> food = "rice"
        "Tuesday" -> food = "chicken"
        else -> food = "egg"
      }
  return food
}
```
Here we dont have to give `break` statement, it will automatically break when a particular condition will be satisfied. In kotlin everything has some value, so we can directly return the value of `when` statement without storing the value to a variable. For example,
```
return when(day) {
    "Monday" -> "rice"
    "Tuesday" -> "checken"
    else -> "egg"
}
```
We can write `when` statement without passing argument to it. `when` statement without argument works as sequence of if-else statements. For example,
```
return when {
    temp > 30 -> true
    color == "red" -> true
    else -> false
}
```

- We can use java library within Kotlin code.
- We can give default value to function argument. For example, `fun name(arg:String = "value") {}`. And, also we can set the default value with the return value of function. For example,
```
fun name(arg:String = anotherFun()) {
}
```
Here, the default value of the `arg` variable will be the value of `anotherFun`. Default parameters are eveluated at call time
- We can set default return value of a function. For example `fun getValue() = 20`, here whenever we call the `getValue` function we will get `20`.
- We can use `filter` to filter elements from list. For example, `list.filter {}`. Within `{}` we have to give filtering condition, like `it[0]=='p'`, this means if the first character of the element is equal to `p`. If we pass `true` boolean value within the `{}` then filter will return all the elements and if we pass `false` opposite will happen. `filter` will return a new list with filtered values.
- If we want lazy behaviour for any operation we can use `sequence`. Using sequence only one value will be taken at a time. We can use `.asSequence()` after a list to convert the list to sequenec and to convert a sequence to a list we can use `.toList()`. We can access element in the sequence using indexing. For example, to access the first element we have to do `seq.first()`.
- Lambda function does have any name and the function body is always within `{}`. Lambda function can have argument. We can assign lambda function to a variable.
```
var a = 20
val b = {c:Int -> c/2}
val b:(Int) -> Int = {c -> c/2} // this means b is any function which takes Int as argument and return Int
b(a)
```
We can pass lambda function as an argument to another function. For example,
```
fun parent(a:Int, b:(Int)->Int) : Int {
  return b(a)
}
```
To pass a normal function as an argument we use `::` with function name. For example `::functionName`. While passing lambda function as an arguemnt we can pass the variable name which holds the lambda function or we can directly pass the lambda function.
- Higher order function is a normal function which takes a function as an argument.
- 
